iterating-over-data: ports from old core repo (#43)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-1: iterating-over-data/iterating-and-special-cases.md

By learning these different pieces of syntax, we can learn to wield them wisely whenever it becomes relevant.

## Vocabulary and Synonyms

| Vocab      | Definition                                                       | Synonyms | How to Use in a Sentence                                                                     |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `break`    | A keyword that will exit an entire loop                          | -        | "We can break out of the loop using `break`," "The loop exited early because it saw `break`" |
| `continue` | A keyword that will immediately advance one interation in a loop | -        | "The loop moved on because it saw `continue`"                                                |
| `range()`  | A Python function that creates a sequence                        | -        | "We used a `for` loop and `range()` in order to iterate through a series of numbers.         |

## `break` Exits a Loop

> `break` is a keyword that we can put in a `for` loop. When our code comes across `break`, it will exit the `for` loop entirely.

Reviewer: avoid perspective shift in description of break.
shift voicing to the interpreter hitting the break, rather than our code.
provide a bit more explicit description of what the break does.
provide a common synonymous expression.
```suggestion
`break` is a keyword that can be used in a `for` loop. When the Python interpreter encounters a `break`, it will immediately exit the current loop, skipping any instructions from after the `break` until the end of the loop. We also say that it _breaks out_ of the loop.
```

```python
for fruit in ["apples", "oranges", "bananas"]:
    print("I'm in the for loop! The value of fruit is:", fruit)
    break
    print("This message will never print, because the for loop saw break before it saw me...")
```

We can pair this with conditionals (and other logic)!

```python
print("I'm looking for a four leaf clover in the field...")

for field_item in ["grass", "grass", "more grass", "four-leaf clover", "rocks", "rocks", "more rocks"]:
    print("...")
    if field_item == "four-leaf clover":
        print("I found a four-leaf clover!")
        print("My hunt is over! I can leave now")
        break
    print(f"I found {field_item} in the field...")
    print("Better keep looking.")
```

### !callout-info

## for-else

> Turns out we can pair a `for` loop with an `else` clause! The `else` clause will run after a `for` loop finishes **if** it did **not** encounter a `break`. The `else` is on the same level of indentation as the `for`.

Reviewer: make a callback to where `else` was first introduced.
additional explicit details about the structure of the else clause
```suggestion
We have seen `else` clauses used with `if` statements, but it turns out we can also pair them with `for` loops! The `else` clause will run after a `for` loop finishes **if** it did **not** encounter a `break`. The `else` keyword must be at the same level of indentation as the `for`, and be followed by a `:`. The `else` body begins indented one level on the following line.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Turns out we can pair a `for` loop with an `else` clause! The `else` clause will run after a `for` loop finishes **if** it did **not** encounter a `break`. The `else` keyword must be at the same level of indentation as the `for`, and be followed by a `:`. The `else` body begins indented one level on the following line.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It turns out we can pair a `for` loop with an `else` clause! The `else` clause will run after a `for` loop finishes **if** it did **not** encounter a `break`. The `else` keyword must be at the same level of indentation as the `for`, and be followed by a `:`. The `else` body begins indented one level on the following line.
```

### !end-callout

```python
for field_item in ["grass", "grass", "more grass", "rocks", "rocks", "more rocks"]:
    print("...")
    if field_item == "four-leaf clover":
        print("I found a four-leaf clover!")
        print("My hunt is over! I can leave now")
        break
    print(f"I found {field_item} in the field...")
    print("Better keep looking.")
else:
    print("I didn't find a four-leaf clover today.")
```

## `continue` Advances One Loop

> `continue` is another keyword we can put in a `for` loop. When our code sees `continue`, it will immediately move to the next iteration.

Reviewer: avoid perspective shift in description of break.
shift voicing to the interpreter hitting the break, rather than our code.
provide a bit more explicit description of what the continue does.

```suggestion
`continue` is another keyword that can be used in a `for` loop. When the Python interpreter encounters a `continue`, it will immediately jump to the beginning of the current loop, skipping any instructions from after the `continue` until the end of the loop. The loop will resume execution with the next item in the iteration, if one exists. Otherwise, the loop will terminate.
```

```python
lucky_charms_quantities = {
    "horseshoe": 4,
    "four-leaf clover": 0,
    "lucky coin": 10
}

for charm, quantity in lucky_charms_quantities.items():
    if quantity == 0:
        continue
    print(f"I found one more {charm}!")
    lucky_charms_quantities[charm] = quantity + 1
```

## `range()` Creates a Sequence

Python allows us to create a sequence of numbers using the `range()` function, much like:

- 1, 2, 3
- 499, 500, 501, 502
- 3, 6, 9, 12, 15
- 0, -1, -2, -3.

The function signature of `range` is:

```
range(start, stop, step)
```

> Where `start` is the number the range should start at, `stop` is the number the range should stop at, and `step` is the amount the range should increment by. `step` is an **optional** argment, and its default value is `1`.

Reviewer: argument typo.
For this I keep going back and forth about whether I think it would be more clear or more confusing to say that stop is one beyond the number the range should stop at.  As it is, the reader might gloss over the example below and later be surprised, while rephrasing here might make them sit up and take notice, since it sounds strange, but accurate.
```suggestion
Where `start` is the number the range should start at, `stop` is the number the range should stop at, and `step` is the amount the range should increment by. `step` is an **optional** argument, and its default value is `1`.
```
or with the range option
```suggestion
Where `start` is the number the range should start at, `stop` is _one beyond_ the number the range should stop at, and `step` is the amount the range should increment by. `step` is an **optional** argument, and its default value is `1`.
```
and for ultimate pedantry, avoiding dangling prepositions
```suggestion
Where `start` is the number at which the range should start, `stop` is _one beyond_ the number at which the range should stop, and `step` is the amount by which the range should increment. `step` is an **optional** argument, and its default value is `1`.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Where `start` is the number the range should start at, `stop` is the number the range should stop at, and `step` is the amount the range should increment by. `step` is an **optional** argment, and its default value is `1`.

Where `start` is the number at which the range should start, and `stop` is the number at which the range should stop. `stop` is non-inclusive, which means the `stop` number itself will _not_ be included in the range. `step` is the amount by which the range should increment. `step` is an **optional** argument, and its default value is `1`.
```

Reviewer: Bringing the introduction of exclusive up to this point makes the latter mention sound redundant with a little smoothing.  I think it's fine to include here, but take a look at the suggestion for the mention below.

### Ranges in `for` Loops

We can pair ranges with `for` loops so that we iterate over a sequence of numbers. To do this, instead of a list or dictionary, we put in a range.

**Look at this example:**

```python
for number in range(0, 6):
    print(number)

> 

Reviewer: delete blank line
```suggestion
```

```

> Note that it printed up to `5`, and it didn't print 6. That's because the end is _non-inclusive_, or it goes **up** to the end value.

Reviewer: use code quotes around both number, or neither.
prefer exclusive to non-inclusive
```suggestion
Note that it printed up to `5`, and it didn't print `6`. That's because the end is _exclusive_. It goes **up** to , but excludes, the end value.
```

Reviewer: change for if exclusive is introduced above
```suggestion
Note that it printed up to `5`, and it didn't print `6`. Recall that the `stop` parameter, is _exclusive_. It goes **up** to, but excludes, the end value.
```

Another example:

```python
print("Blast off in:")

for count in range(10, 0, -1):
    print(count, "...")

print("Blast off!")
```

> ## Check for Understanding

Reviewer 2: added a few CPU questions

```suggestion
## Check for Understanding
<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge

* type: multiple-choice
* id: NkOZhxvAK
* title: Using a For Loop

##### !question

True of False: Once a `for` loop is executed, it cannot be stopped early. It must complete its loop from start to finish.

##### !end-question

##### !options

* True
* False

##### !end-options

##### !answer

* False

##### !end-answer

##### !explanation

A `break` statement can be used to stop a `for` loop early.

##### !end-explanation

### !end-challenge
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- Question 2 -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge

* type: short-answer
* id: 4yWezZDAY
* title: Using a Break Statement

##### !question

Looking at the code below, what is the role of the `continue` statement?

<!-- ```python
for i in range(33):
  if i % 3 != 0:
    continue
  print(f"{i} is divisible by 3!")
``` -->

##### !end-question

##### !placeholder

Your explanation here...

##### !end-placeholder

##### !answer

/.+/

##### !end-answer

##### !explanation

For each iteration `i` is checked to see if it is evenly divisible by 3. If it's not, then the `continue` statement moves the loop to the next iteration of `i` and checks again.

##### !end-explanation

### !end-challenge
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- Question 3 -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge

* type: short-answer
* id: VJnx3ZvRt
* title: Using a Range

##### !question

What is the role of the `range` function? What three arguments does it take? Are they all required?

##### !end-question

##### !placeholder

Your answer here...

##### !end-placeholder

##### !answer

/.+/

##### !end-answer

##### !explanation

`Range` function iterates through a sequence of numbers. It can take three arguments: `start`, `stop`, `step`. `Start` tells it what number to begin the sequence on, `stop` tells it when to stop (not including the number), `step` tells it how many times to increase per iteration. Only `stop` is a required argument.

##### !end-explanation

### !end-challenge
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
```
